In this video we'll do a simple demo on how to create
a data frame and apply some operations on top of it.
Instead of importing just pyspark,
we're actually going to import pyspark.sql
library because we'll be using data frame instead of RDD.
Then we'll use a builder to added configurations,
and then we're going to create a spark variable that uses SparkSession.
This will use the builder to adding configurations
like master.appName and then we're going to do a getorCreate.
Like another way of setting configurations could be spark.conf.set.
Spark.executor.memory, this will be
your key value and then it can do like to give it like how we did before.
We're going to load a Airbnb data that I got from Kaggle,
it's under Resources folder.
So we'll give a path and that's what it's called and it is also CSV file.
So when we do this,
we're going to be using a CSV offer operator spark.read.
So if you're loading a JSON file you'll be using JSON.
If you're using a park eighth file you'll be using just a load function.
Well here we're going to use CSV and then we're going to give a path.
Also what we want to do is that we want to use the header that isn't CSV.
So we're going to say header is True.
If you don't want to use it you'll default but then it won't
be useful because you are not going to get the column names.
We're going to do print schema just so we can see what it's in there.
Another cool thing is that to view the content of RDD we had to collect.
But on Data Frame you can just do data.show,
this will show column names here and the values here.
Obviously some of them aren't caught because they're along.
If you don't want to do this you can give a false variable.
So like let's do show like two rows,
one row I guess and then we can pass in another value called False.
This will actually show all the values in
your data frame and it will also say
only showing top one row because I asked to show in one row.
Now that we have this data set I'm going to try to see
how many distinct doing neighborhood groups are in New York City in this data frame.
So what we can do is apply a traditional SQL syntax.
We can do is df.select on the column name.
Here we're going to copy this down and what we can do is do a distinct.
We're going to do a count on it to see how many there are.
The way we can see this is to do a show on it but instead of doing a count we're going
to create a new data frame because we're applying transformation.
Now I can do a show, they were 78 of them.
You can put 78 exact or you can put a 100 just in case if there are more but since we
saw they were 78 I'm going to put 78 and then we're going to
do a false to see all the names.
So here now you are able to see all the neighborhood groups in New York City.
So that was a quick way to load data and apply
some operations like Show and Select and Distinct.
I think you are able to recognize some differences between RDDs
like using SparkSession instead of contexts and there
were SQL rappers like obviously select the distinct weren't existent in RDDs.
Okay. So next concept we're going to be talking about Spark Streaming.